---
title: "Disclaimers"
date: 2008-07-28T15:41:03
slug: "disclaimer"
---

<p>By reading this website you agree to the disclaimers below.</p>  <p>Cooking and eating involve inherent dangers. Sharp tools, hot stoves, allergic reactions, and food poisioning are only some of the potential risks. Please only undertake activities that you believe to be safe and comfortable. Michael Natkin and Herbivoracious assume no responsibility or liability for any damages you may experience as a result of following recipes, instruction or advice on this website.</p>  <p>To the best of my knowledge, all of the recipes on this site are lacto-ovo vegetarian. Where possible, I indicate dishes that I believe to be vegan and/or gluten-free, or easily modifiable to be so. All information should only be used as a starting point for your own review, not as an absolute statement of vegetarian, vegan, or gluten status. Individuals are responsible for following a diet and reading product labels since manufacturers can change ingredients and information can become outdated. Remember that ingredients can be added to a product intentionally, through cross contamination, or as a result of the manufacturing process. Michael Natkin and Herbivoracious assume no liability for the information provided.</p>  <p>Except as expressly provided otherwise in the Privacy Policy or in this Agreement, you agree that by posting comments, messages, uploading text, graphics, photographs, images, video or audio files, inputting data, or engaging in any other form of communication with or through the Website or associated surveys and related social media, you grant us a royalty-free, perpetual, non-exclusive, unrestricted, worldwide license to use, reproduce, modify, adapt, translate, enhance, transmit, distribute, publicly perform, display, or sublicense any such communication (including your identity and information about you) in any medium (now in existence or hereinafter developed) and for any purpose, including commercial purposes, and to authorize others to do so. In addition, please be aware that information you disclose in publicly accessible portions of the Website will be available to all users of the Website, so you should be mindful of personal information and other content you may wish to post.</p>
