---
title: "Mexican Panzanella Salad"
date: 2007-07-16T20:21:51
slug: "mexican-panzane"
categories: ["Recipes", "Salads", "Vegan or Modifiable"]
aliases: ["/mexican-panzane/", "/2007/07/mexican-panzane.html"]
---

<p>The idea for this is based on a Rick Bayless recipe title, but I didn't have it in front of me this weekend. Hmm, and actually looking at his chayote-based recipe now, they really have nothing in common. We were in Friday Harbor Washington, which is on San Juan Island in Puget Sound, on S's parent's boat. It served 6 with one other dish and lots of leftovers, so you could easily cut it in half for a side dish.<br /><div class="recipe-card">
<strong><br />Mexican Panzanella Salad</strong><em><br />Serves 8 as most of dinner<br />Vegetarian and vegan; to make gluten-free use corn tortillas instead of the bread<br /></em></p>  <p>5 small limes, juiced<br /> 3/4 c. olive oil, minced<br /> 2 cloves garlic<br /> 1 T. kosher salt or sea salt<br /> 2 t. mild ancho or other <a href="https://www.amazon.com/Ancho-Chile-Pepper-Powder-Ground/dp/B08PPD8B3W?tag=herb-hugo-20">chili powder</a><br />1 t. cumin powder<br />5 poblano chilis, roasted, peeled, seeded, and sliced <br />6 medium heirloom tomatoes, diced or 3 pints sweet cherry tomatoes, halved<br />1 cucumber, seeded and cut into medium dice<br />3 ears corn, roasted or microwaved 3 minutes<br />1/2 red onion or sweet yellow onion, sliced thin<br />1 loaf of bread (I used a ciabatta), either stale or toasted, cut into medium dice<br /> 3 ripe avocados, cut into medium dice<br />1 cup fresh cilantro leaves<br />1/2 cup fresh parsley leaves<br />1/4 cup fresh mint leaves</p>  <ul><li>Whisk together lime juice, olive oil, garlic, salt, chili powder and cumin to make the dressing. It should be pretty salty.</li>  <li>Prepare the poblanos, tomatoes, cucumber and onion and place in a large serving bowl</li>  <li>Remove the corn kernels from the cob and add to the other vegetables</li>  <li>If you like the bread to sop up the juice, add it now, otherwise wait til close to serving time</li>  <li>About 15 minutes before you are ready to serve the salad, combine the dressing, vegetables, bread (if you haven't already), avocado, and herbs, and toss gently but thoroughly</li>  <li>Let rest a few minutes then taste and adjust seasoning</li></ul>  <p>You could certainly add some jalapeno or other hot peppers if you want to amp this up, and of course change the vegetables to suit what is fresh and in season. It might be nice to add some zest from the limes to the dressing as well.</p>
</div>
